BUSINESS OVERVIEW:

1. What is the nature of your business? Detail the products/services that you will be providing.

Bit Lore Digital Studio

Web Development and Design

Primary services:
Website and application development
User interface design
User experience
E-commerce integration
Web animation
Technical maintenance

Secondary services:
Branding
Logos
Iconography
Email marketing
Copy writing

We will also work closely with our friends at Surface SEO and Wunderfurn Photography to provide search engine optimization and photo content to our clients. 


2. Have you established a location to conduct your business? If not, what is the expected date of occupancy?

Yes. We will work from our home in Portland, OR.  Most business will be conducted online.


3. Are you free from direction or control of any other entity?

Yes -- the business is a limited partnership between my wife and I, each with 50% ownership.  We are the sole investors.


4. What is your 6-12 month goal? Please include specific information.

Functional responsive website (just finished).

Increase visibility of website in search engine rankings (will work with Surface SEO).

Receive word-of-mouth referrals for at least 30% of business.

Complete projects with current potential clients (Labyrinth Escape Games, Niblack Events, Stoney & Yates, The Heights Co., High Plains Pork).

Accrue 4 or more clients with a monthly retainer of greater than $500.

By 12 months, business will gross equivalent to our previous combined income ($100,000 / year).


5. What is your 2-3 year goal? Please include specific information.

Complete an application (not just a website) for a client or for ourselves.

Complete professional development to expand skill set.

Accrue 6 or more clients with a monthly retainer of greater than $500.

Receive word-of-mouth referrals for at least 50% of business.

By 3 years, business will gross $200,000 / year.



QUALIFICATIONS & SKILLS:

1. Describe your qualifications to operate this business successfully.

Ethan Law -- 2 years experience designing and building front end of a large scale web application.  Created client facing engine for taking online courses.  Designed interface and built new content management system used in building and editing online courses.

Taylor Law -- 3 years experience in Interactive team at fast-paced marketing agency.  Built many websites for clients, configured and managed content management systems, animated graphics and banner ads, created tools for large tech client and consulted on technical decisions.


2. Have you ever owned a business before? If yes, what was the type of business?

No


3. Do you have any business skills that will aid you in being successful in this business?

We have several close friends and family members that are self-employed and/or run their own business.  They have been advising us through this process.  Moreover, as web developers our skills lie in intensive research and problem-solving based on whatever information is available on the internet.  We will use our full array of skills to gain the knowledge we need for the day-to-day operations of the business.



STARTUP COSTS:

1. What are the estimated start up costs needed to set up this business?

Register business with state of Oregon (done) : $100
Register DBA (done) : $50
Register domain name (done) : $50

Total : $200


2. Will you be fully financially responsible for these costs? If not, what amount and percentage will you invest?

50% responsible -- business is a limited partnership with wife.  Will invest necessary amount up to $5,000 to make profitable.


3. Where will the additional funding come from?

No outside funding should be necessary -- overhead extremely low as all business takes place online.


4. Have the terms for the financing been finalized? If not, what is the estimated date of completion?

Yes -- we have set up bank accounts for the business.  No outside financing should be necessary.


5. What is your current credit score?

725 (Equifax)
726 (Transunion)


6. Have you filed bankruptcy in the last seven (7) years? If so, when?

No


7. Do you have any personal assets that can be used to secure a loan in the event financing from a financial institution is necessary?

Not sure -- we have a car and 401Ks.



FINANCIAL DUE-DILIGENCE:

1. Currently, how much do you contribute, in dollars, to your household expenses?

Rent : $600 / mo.
Utilities : $100 / mo.
Groceries : $250 / mo.
Misc : $50 / mo.

Total : $1000 / mo.


2. What will your estimated business expenses be?

Hosting & Domain : $20 / mo.
Software Licenses : $70 / mo.
Internet : $60 / mo.

Total : $150 / mo.

Capital assets such as computers and workspace are already owned.


3. To cover your business expenses and financial responsibility to your household, how much product/services will the business
need to provide to meet these financial obligations?

About $3000.


4. What is your plan should you encounter a shortfall?

Use personal savings, look into investors or have one of us find steady work.


5. Have you created a preliminary budget for your business?

Yes -- $1000 to get off the ground.



LICENSING & REGULATIONS:

1. Is this a new or existing business? Is it registered with the State of Oregon? If so, what is the business registration number?

It is a new business as of 5/28/19.  It is registered with the State of Oregon with registry number: 1554603-98.


2. Have all required licenses, insurance and certifications been obtained? If not, what is the estimated date of completion?

Yes



MARKET RESEARCH:

1. Discuss the demand for your product/services? How do you know this?

Most businesses in the modern era need a web presence in order to gain visibility so their customers know they exist.  While it is possible for anyone to create a web site from a template, many business owners are too busy to learn to do this themselves, and will have difficulty integrating peripheral technology into their site.  Moreover, it takes a very special set of skills to create a fully CUSTOM website based on an original design.  It can be very difficult to find developers that are skilled, affordable, and dependable all at the same time -- that is where we come in.  We will also use our secondary skills and local connections to provide supporting services like branding, SEO and content.  This is our professional opinion based on observation and general consensus from our time as developers working for marketing and tech companies.


2. Who is your targeted customer? Where is the targeted market area?

Small businesses looking to improve their online image, professionals willing to invest in a top-notch portfolio site, and agencies looking to contract out work.

We may start out marketing ourselves focused in Portland because that's where most of our connections are, but since it's an online business we can provide services to clients basically anywhere.


3. Who will buy your products and services?

Small businesses who either don't have a website, have one that is out-dated or doesn't adequately reflect the image they want to portray, of does not have the functionality they want.

Agencies who have an influx of workload but aren't ready to commit to hiring another employee.  This has already happened with the marketing agency my wife was working for prior.


4. As a new business, what are some of the barriers that you may encounter? How will you overcome these barriers?

Getting our name out there -- I just set up a Facebook for the business, and we will do a blast to all the people we know that we're offering these services.  The handful of projects we're already working on should get some word of mouth going as well, and the fact our good friend is the top SEO expert in Portland gets us a lot of connections.  Barring that we can always seek out companies that look like they need an updated website, or advertise ourselves on UpWork.


5. What market research have you done to support the need for your products/services?

Our customers may need a website, or may have set one up themselves or with the help of a friend but now need something more robust and professional.

We fit into a niche because we don't have the overhead of, say, a marketing agency with a full production company behind it, but we have the skills of a good development team and connections to other trusted freelancers for whatever our customers may need.

This enables us to provide a healthy array of tech and branding-related services at a modest price.


MARKETING ANALYSIS:

1. What marketing tools will you use to market your business?

AdWords, Dribbble, UpWork


2. What is your estimated marketing budget for the next 6 months? Is this included in your business expenses?

We plan on trading work with our friends at Surface SEO to get ranked on in Google Results.  We will only pay for AdWords if necessary, so it has not been included in our monthly budget.


COMPETITIVE ANALYSIS:

1. Provide the names of THREE (3) of your potential competitors.

Point B Digital, Hot Pepper Studio, Cloud Four


2. What makes your business different from the competition?

We are very small and will be much less expensive -- affordable for a small business with a modest budget but still dependable quality.

Unlike typical developers, we have a good eye for design and a good bedside manner.

Our website is also exemplary and will improve as we generate more portfolio pieces and content.

Clients will know they are speaking directly to the owners as well as the developers.


3. What sources will you provide your clients or potential clients to contact you? How will customers access information about your
products or services?

Our website: bitlore.io

Our company email: hello@bitlore.io

We also have a sheet with our rates and have drafted our first proposal which we will use as a template.


4. How much control will you have over the operation of the business and how products/services are delivered?

Between my wife and I, 100%.



RISKS & CHALLENGES:

1. Provide three (3)events that will indicate to you that your business in on the path to success. What will you do to make these
happen?

1) Getting more work than we can take on by word-of-mouth references.
2) Making monthly retainers for routine maintenance work.
3) Being able to increase our rates without losing business.

We will accomplish this by creating an excellent working relationship with clients and providing top quality work on schedule.


2. As a new business owner, what are some of the personal or business challenges you may encounter? How will you address or
overcome these challenges?

It will be hard not always knowing where the next paycheck is coming from, and riding out the dips and lulls in business.  Despite this, my wife and I have the support of each other and a great friend group, and in general are self-motivated and full of perseverance.  We have always been able to adapt to adversity, so I am confident our flexibility will allow us to position ourselves wherever the business opportunities lead.


3. What are some of the potential risks associated with this type of business? How will you prevent or address these risks?

The biggest risk would be to accidentally bring down a client's website resulting in lost business.  We would avoid this by using an online staging site to confirm and test any changes before pushing them live.

Other smaller mistakes would be weeded out by adequate QA and browser testing of code.




